In this section of the Course will go over the control structures that allow you to control the flow
of execution in your program.
So far you've learned how to write programs that run sequentially.
That is one statement followed by another and so forth.
You can solve many problems using sequence but now is when we really take advantage of the power of
programming.
In this section we'll go over the selection and iteration control structures in C++ selection control
structures allow you to make decisions and execute parts of your program only when certain conditions
are true or false.
This is so powerful and opens up a world of programming power.
After we learn about the selection constructs we'll learn about the iteration control structures.
These are the constructs that let us loop and repeat parts of our program.
So we have these three basic programming building blocks sequence selection and iteration with sequence
selection and iteration.
We can implement any algorithm.
Let me repeat that with sequence selection and iteration.
We can implement any algorithm that's amazing.
Let's see some of the C++ selection statements.
The main selection powerhouse in most programming languages is the if statement if a condition is true
then you do something.
We can also add the failing condition to an if statement and get the if else statement.
In this case if a condition is true you do something and if the condition is false you do something
else.
So you're basically making a simple binary decision.
We can also nest if statements 1 inside the other.
For example if my favorite football team is playing today then if the game is on now then record it.
Sometimes if statements get pretty long and complex so C++ has a switch statement that has some benefits
when we're comparing integer based discrete elements.
Finally C++ has a really neat operator called the conditional operator.
That's basically an if statement wrapped up in an operator will go over all of the selection control
flow constructs in detail.
Then we'll look at the iteration or looping constructs.
C++ has three basic looping constructs.
The for loop.
The while loop and the do while loop.
There is also a range based for loop.
That's great to use with ranges of items and collections of items like arrays and vectors.
We can control how many times we loop in many ways to continue and break statements allow us to read
loop and break out of loops whenever we want.
Finally we'll talk about the infinite loop.
That's a loop that loops forever.
Well at least until we break out of it and nested loops these are loops within loops that are great
for working with multi dimensional structures like two dimensional arrays or vectors.
Everything you've learned up to this point will now be used with these control structures.
Variable declarations assignment.
Testing for equality relational and logical operators and more.
Let's get started and learn these powerful constructs.